.TH aqfimg_enc 1
.UC 4
.SH NAME
aqfimg_enc \- lossy compression of grey level images using forward adaptive 
quantization.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B aqfimg_enc
[
.BI \-i " infile"
][
.BI \-o " outfile"
][
.BI \-l " numlev"
][
.BI \-b " numbits"
][
.BI \-s " blocksize"
][
.BI \-x " row_size"
][
.BI \-y " col_size"
][
.B \-h
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program provides lossy compression of a grey-scale (8 bits/pixel) image
using forward adaptive quantization.  The maximum and minumum pixel values
in a block of size blocksize is obtained and the image is quantized using a 
uniform quantizer with stepsize equal to the difference between the
minimum and maximum values divided by the number of levels.  The maximum and
minimum values for each block are stored using eight bits while the quantizer
labels are stored using [log_2 numlev] bits.  The resulting output can be
further compressed using a variable length code.


The program needs the following subroutines:
.IP readimage
.IP image_size
.IP encuqi
.IP stuffit
.LP
and the header file idc.h

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-i " infile"
The name of the file containing the input image.  The image is assumed to be
stored using 8 bits/pixel in raw format.
.TP
.BI \-o " outfile"
This will contain the compressed image.  The various parameters required
for decompression are also stored in the same file.  If this option is not
used the program writes the decorrelated image to standard out.  This is useful
if the output of the program is to be piped directly to a variable length coder.
.TP
.BI \-l " numlev"
If this value is provided
numbits need not be specified.  The number of bits needed to represent the
lables, numbits, need not be specified. numbits is computed as 2^numlev.
.TP
.BI \-b " numbits"
This is the number of bits needed to specify a quantizer label.  If this
value is specified, the number of levels, numlev, need not be specified.
numlev is computed as numlev = 2^numbits.
.TP
.BI\-s " blocksize"
This is the size of one side of the square block over which the quantizer
parameters are computed.
.TP
.BI \-x " row_size"
This is the number of pixels in each row of the image.
.TP
.BI \-y " col_size"
This is the number of rows of pixels.

If the row_size and col_size are not provided the program attempts to check 
to see if the image corresponds to any of the standard sizes it is familiar 
with.  To add to the list of standard sizes, edit image_size.c

.TP
.BI \-h
This option will provide the usage.

.SH AUTHOR
Khalid Sayood, University of Nebraska - Lincoln.


