.TH distimg
.UC 4
.SH NAME
distimg \- computes various performance measures between original and 
reconstructed images.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B distimg  file1  file2
[
.BI \-p " peak_value"
][
.BI \-x " row_size"
][
.BI \-y " col_size"
][
.BI \-m " mode"
][
.B \-h
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program computes the mean squared error, mean absolute error, signal
to noise ratio (in dB), and the peak signal-to-noise ratio (in dB), between
file1 and file2.  It assumes file1 to be the original image and file2 to be the
reconstructed image.  The images are assumed to be grey-level images (8 
bits/pixel) stored in raw format.  

If I[i,j] is the pixel value of the original image (file1) at location i,j
R[i,j] is the pixel value of the reconstructed image at location i,j,
and < > denotes average value, then
the performance measures computed by this program are defined as follows.

mean squared error = <(I[i,j] - R[i,j])^2>.

mean absolute error = <|I[i,j] - R[i,j]|>.

signal to noise ratio = <I[i,j]^2> / <(I[i,j] - R[i,j])^2>.

peak signal to noise ratio = peak_value^2 / <(I[i,j] - R[i,j])^2>.


The program needs the following subroutines:
.IP readimage
.IP image_size
.LP
and the header file idc.h

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-p " peak_value"
This value is used to compute the peak signal-to-noise ratio.  If no value is
provided the program assumes a value of 255.
.TP
.BI \-x " row_size"
This is the number of pixels in each row of the image.
.TP
.BI \-y " col_size"
This is the number of rows of pixels.

If the row_size and col_size are not provided the program attempts to check 
to see if the image corresponds to any of the standard sizes it is familiar 
with.  To add to the list of standard sizes, edit image_size.c

.TP
.BI \-h
This option will provide the usage.

.SH AUTHOR
Khalid Sayood, University of Nebraska - Lincoln.


