.TH dpcm_dec 1 
.UC 4
.SH NAME
dpcm_dec \- reconstructs a speech or audio file compressed using dpcm_enc
and predictor.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B dpcm_dec
[
.BI \-i " infile"
][
.BI \-o " outfile"
][
.B \-h
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The program reconstructs a speech or audio file encoded using dpcm_enc.
The program reads the names of the quantizer file and predictor file
from the compressed file.  These files should be available to the program
in order for reconstruction to take place.  The output is stored in raw format
(no headers) using 16 bits/sample.  If you want to play the output you might
have to swap the byte order depending on your machine.

The quantizer file contains the number of levels, boundary and
reconstruction values for the nonuniform quantizer.  The first
number is the number of reconstruction levels in the quantizer, numlev.
The next (numlev-1) numbers are the inner boundary values (note
that there are numlev+1 boundary values.  The extreme values are
assumed to be plus and minus infinity.  The next numlev values
are the reconstruction values.  Some quan_files should be available
at the location you found this program.  The name of the files
are of the form xxnn.dat, xx is ga for Gaussian, la for Laplacian
and gm for Gamma.  nn denotes the number of levels.

The predictor file contains the order of the predictor followed by
the predictor coefficients.


The program needs the following subroutines:
.IP nuquan_dec
.IP predictor
.IP unstuff
.LP
and the header file idc.h

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-i " infile"
This is the compressed  speech or audio file.  
.TP
.BI \-o " outfile"
The reconstructed speech or audio is stored in outfile.  The output samples
are stored using 16 bits/ sample.
.TP
.BI \-h
This option will provide the usage.

.SH AUTHOR
Khalid Sayood, University of Nebraska - Lincoln.


