.TH jpegll_enc 1 "July 15, 1995" 1
.UC 4
.SH NAME
jpegll_enc \- decorrelates an image using one of the eight lossless JPEG modes.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B jpegll_enc 
[
.BI \-i " infile"
][
.BI \-o " outfile"
][
.BI \-x " row_size"
][
.BI \-y " col_size"
][
.BI \-m " mode"
][
.B \-h
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program takes a grey-level image (8 bits/pixel) and decorrelates
it using one of the eight JPEG lossless modes.  The program assumes that
the input is in raw format.  The output can be written to a file or to
standard out.  The data is written out without entropy coding so the
effect of using this program is data expansion instead of data compression.
In order to get compression the output of this file has to be encoded using
a variable length code.

The program needs the following subroutines:
.IP readimage
.IP image_size
.LP
and the header file idc.h

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-i " infile"
The name of the file containing the input image.  The image is assumed to be
stored using 8 bits/pixel in raw format.
.TP
.BI \-o " outfile"
This will contain the decorrelated residual image.  If this option is not used
the program writes the decorrelated image to standard out.  This is useful
if the output of the program is to be piped directly to a variable length coder.
.TP
.BI \-m " mode"
The JPEG lossless compression standard specifies eight different prediction
modes with mode 0 being no prediction.  The value of mode specifies which of the
eight predictors is to be used for decorrelation.  The mode is written out
to the encoded file along with the residuals.
.SH "The JPEG lossless modes are:"
.TP 20 
0
No prediction
.TP 20
1
P[i,j] = I[i-1,j]
.TP 20
2
P[i,j] = I[i,j-1]
.TP 20
3
P[i,j] = I[i-1,j-1]
.TP 20
4
P[i,j] = I[i,j-1] + I[i-1,j] - I[i-1,j-1]
.TP 20
5
P[i,j] = I[i,j-1] + (I[i-1,j] - I[i-1,j-1])/2
.TP 20
6
P[i,j] = I[i-1,j] + (I[i,j-1] - I[i-1,j-1])/2
.TP 20
7
P[i,j] = (I[i,j-1] + I[i-1,j])/2
.LP
Where P[i,j] is the prediction for the pixel in row i column j, and I[i,j]
is the pixel value at row i column j.
.TP
.BI \-x " row_size"
This is the number of pixels in each row of the image.
.TP
.BI \-y " col_size"
This is the number of rows of pixels.

.TP
.BI \-h
This option will provide the usage.

.SH AUTHOR
Khalid Sayood, University of Nebraska - Lincoln.


