.TH misnuq 1 
.UC 4
.SH NAME
misnuq \- explores effect of mismatch on nonuniform Lloyd-Max quantizers.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B misnuq  qfile
[
.BI \-n " num"
][
.BI \-d " distribution"
][
.BI \-b " min_std"
][
.BI \-m " max_std"
][
.BI \-s " std_step"
][
.B \-e
][
.B \-h
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program can be used to explore the effect of mismatch between the
assumptions about the quantizer input used to design a Lloyd-Max quantizer,
and the actual input statistics.  This program can be used to explore
both mismatch between the assumed and actual distribution and mismatch
between the actual and assumed variances.  The quantizer parameters are
obtained from the file qfile, while the distribution of the input is
specified by the user.  
The file qfile contains the number of levels, boundary and
reconstruction values for the nonuniform quantizer.  The first
number is the number of reconstruction levels in the quantizer, numlev.
The next (numlev-1) numbers are the inner boundary values (note
that there are numlev+1 boundary values.  The extreme values are
assumed to be plus and minus infinity.  The next numlev values
are the reconstruction values.  Some quan_files should be available
at the location you found this program.  The name of the files
are of the form xxnn.dat, xx is ga for Gaussian, la for Laplacian
and gm for Gamma.  nn denotes the number of levels.


The program simulates a range of input variances, specified by the user.

The program needs the following subroutines:
.IP rangen
.IP nuquan_enc
.IP nuquan_dec
.IP ent
.LP
and the header file idc.h

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-n " num"
This is the number of inputs to be generate for the simulation.  It is difficult
to get a reasonably accurate estimate with num less than 10,000.
.TP
.BI \-d " distribution"
This is a number specifying the input probability distribution
A value of 0 corresponds to Uniform distribution.
A value of 1 corresponds to Gaussian distribution.
A value of 2 corresponds to Laplacian distribution.
A value of 3 corresponds to Gamma distribution.  This
last option should be used with care, as the function
generating the Gamma distribution is not entirely reliable.
.TP
.BI \-b " min_std"
This is the smallest value of the range of standard deviations to be generated
.TP
.BI \-m " max_std"
This is the largest value of the range of standard deviations to be generated
.TP
.BI \-s " std_step"
The standard deviations to be generated are incremented in steps of std_step.
.TP
.BI \-e
If this option is specified the program calculates the output entropy
of the quantizer.
.TP
.BI \-h
This option will provide the usage.

.SH AUTHOR
Khalid Sayood, University of Nebraska - Lincoln.


