.TH progt_enc 1 "July 15, 1995" 1
.UC 4
.SH NAME
progt_enc \- program to experiment with different approximations to use for
progressive image transmission.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B progt_enc 
[
.BI \-i " infile"
][
.BI \-o " outfile"
][
.BI \-x " row_size"
][
.BI \-y " col_size"
][
.BI \-m " mode"
][
.BI \-b " blocksize"
][
.B \-h
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program can be used to experiment with different approximations to use
for progressive transmission application.  Currently there are two modes
available.  In mode 1 each block of pixels is approximated by the value of the
pixel in the top left corner of the block.  In mode 2 each block of pixels is
approximated by the average value of the pixels in the block.  Further
modes can easily be added.

The program needs the following subroutines:
.IP readimage
.IP image_size
.LP
and the header file idc.h

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-i " infile"
The name of the file containing the input image.  The image is assumed to be
stored using 8 bits/pixel in raw format.
.TP
.BI \-o " outfile"
This will contain the approximation to the input image.  If this option is 
not used the program writes the approximation to standard out.  This is useful
if the output of the program is to be piped directly to a variable length coder.
.TP
.BI \-m " mode"
There are currently two modes as described above.
.TP
.BI \-x " row_size"
This is the number of pixels in each row of the image.
.TP
.BI \-y " col_size"
This is the number of rows of pixels.

.TP
.BI \-h
This option will provide the usage.

.SH AUTHOR
Khalid Sayood, University of Nebraska - Lincoln.


