.TH trainvq 1 
.UC 4
.SH NAME
trainvq \- trains a vector quantizer codebook. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B trainvq  ts_file
[
.BI \-c " codefile"
][
.BI \-d " dimension"
][
.BI \-b " cb_size"
][
.BI \-t " ts_size"
][
.B \-h
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program can be used to train a vector quantizer using the LBG algorithm.
The purpose of this program is more to allow the user to explore the process,
for specific applications the program would have to be modified.  There is
also a program available for training a vector quantizer specifically
for image compression - trvqsp_img.  This program uses either a user specified
initial codebook or selects the initial codebook from the training set.  A
more sophisticated approach is used by the program trvqsplit which uses
the splitting approach specified by Linde, Buzo, and Gray.   The program 
does not attempt to resolve the empty cell problem.

The ts_file contains the training set.
The program needs the following subroutines:
.IP vqencode
.LP
and the header file idc.h

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c " codefile"
This is the file containing the initial codebook.  If
no file name for the initial codebook is provided,  then when the
codebook size is available, that many vectors from the training
set are used as the initial codebook.
.TP
.BI \-d " dimension"
This is the dimension of the vectors.
.TP
.BI \-b " cb_size"
This is the size of the codebook.
.TP
.BI \-t " ts_size"
This is the size of the training set.  This should be considerably larger
than the codebook size.
.TP
.BI \-h
This option will provide the usage.

.SH AUTHOR
Khalid Sayood, University of Nebraska - Lincoln.


