.TH trvqsp_img 1 
.UC 4
.SH NAME
trvqsp_img \- trains a vector quantizer codebook for image compression
using the splitting approach for obtaining the initial codebook. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B trvqsp_img  ts_img codefile
[
.BI \-b " cb_size"
][
.BI \-t " block_height"
][
.BI \-w " block_width"
][
.BI \-x " row_size"
][
.BI \-y " col_size"
][
.B \-h
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program can be used to train a vector quantizer for use in image
compression using the LBG algorithm.
The codebook is initialized using the splitting approach proposed by
Linde, Buzo, and Gray.
The ts_img is the image used as the training set.  The vectors are actually
rectangular arrays which are block_height pixels tall by block_width pixels
wide.  Thus the dimension of the vector is block_height X block_width.
The images are assumed to be 8 bit grey-level images stored using raster scan
order.  The program can take a long time to run especially if the size
of the desired codebook is large.  Therefore it is a good idea to run
the program in background.

The dimensions of the image can be specified by the user or obtained
directly by the program.  The program "knows" about only a small set
of standard image sizes.  The user can add to the set by editing the 
file image_size.c.  Or, the user can simply specify the dimensions of the 
image at run-time using the options -x and -y.

The codefile contains the codebook in binary format.  The codebook is
preceded by a 12 byte header which contains the dimensions of the vector
as well as the size of the codebook.

The program needs the following subroutines:
.IP vqencode
.IP readimage
.IP image_size
.LP
and the header file idc.h

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-b " cb_size"
This is the size of the codebook.
.TP
.BI \-t " block_height"
This is the height of a block of pixels making up a vector.
.TP
.BI \-w " block_width"
This is the width of the block of pixels making up a vector.
The dimension of the vector is block_height X block_width.
.TP
.BI \-h
This option will provide the usage.

.SH AUTHOR
Khalid Sayood, University of Nebraska - Lincoln.


