.TH uqimg_enc 1 "July 15, 1995" 1
.UC 4
.SH NAME
uqimg_enc \- compresses an image in a lossy fashion using uniform quantization.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B uqimg_enc 
[
.BI \-i " infile"
][
.BI \-o " outfile"
][
.BI \-l " numlev"
][
.BI \-b " numbits"
][
.BI \-m " max_value"
][
.BI \-t " min_value"
][
.BI \-x " row_size"
][
.BI \-y " col_size"
][
.B \-h
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program takes a grey-level image (8 bits/pixel) and compresses it in a
lossy fashion using uniform quantization.  The quantizer labels are encoded
using a fixed length code.  The output can be further encoded using
a variable length coder for further compression.  The step size of the
quantizer is the difference between the maximum and minimum values divided
by the number of levels.  The maximum and minimum values can be specified by
the user.  The default values are 255 and 0.

The program needs the following subroutines:
.IP readimage
.IP image_size
.IP encuqi
.LP
and the header file idc.h

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-i " infile"
The name of the file containing the input image.  The image is assumed to be
stored using 8 bits/pixel in raw format.
.TP
.BI \-o " outfile"
This will contain the compressed  image.   The  various
parameters  required  for decompression are also stored
in the same file.  If this option is not used the  pro-
gram  writes  the  decorrelated  image to standard out.
This is useful if the output of the program  is  to  be
piped directly to a variable length coder.
.TP
.BI \-l " numlev"
This is the size of the quantizer reproduction alphabet.
If this value is provided numbits need  not  be  speci-
fied.   The  number  of  bits  needed  to represent the
lables, numbits, need not be specified. numbits is com-
puted as [log_2 numlev] ([x] is the smallest integer greater than or equal to 
x).
.TP
.BI \-b " numbits"
This is the number of bits needed to  specify  a  quantizer label.  If this 
value is specified, the number of levels, numlev, need not be specified.  
numlev is  computed as numlev = 2^numbits.
.TP
.BI \-m " max_value"
This is the maximum value that the input can take.  This value along with
min_value is used to compute the quantizer step size.  The default max_value
is 255.
.TP
.BI \-t " min_value"
This is the minimum value that the input can take.  This value along with
max_value is used to compute the quantizer step size.  The default min_value
is 0.
.TP
.BI \-x " row_size"
This is the number of pixels in each row of the image.
.TP
.BI \-y " col_size"
This is the number of rows of pixels.

If the row_size and col_size are not provided the program attempts to check
to see if the image corresponds to any of the standard sizes it is familiar
with.  To add to the list of standard sizes, edit image_size.c


.TP
.BI \-h
This option will provide the usage.

.SH AUTHOR
Khalid Sayood, University of Nebraska - Lincoln.


