.TH uquan_ran 1 
.UC 4
.SH NAME
uquan_ran \- explores uniform quantization of random inputs.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B uquan_ran
[
.BI \-l " numlev"
][
.BI \-s " stepsize"
][
.BI \-n " num"
][
.BI \-d " distribution"
][
.B \-e
][
.B \-h
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program can be used to explore the performance of uniform
quantizers operating on random inputs.  Four possibilities for the 
input distribution are available.  These include uniform, Laplacian, Gaussian,
and gamma (the gamma distribution is not very accurate).  More distributions
can be added by modifying rangen.c and the call to rangen.
The quantizer parameters are specified by the user through command line
arguments or through answer to prompts.

The program needs the following subroutines:
.IP rangen
.IP uquan_enc
.IP uquan_dec
.IP ent
.LP
and the header file idc.h

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-l " numlev"
This is the size of the reproduction alphabet of the quantizer.
.TP
.BI \-q " stepsize"
This is the size of the quantization interval (Delta).
.TP
.BI \-n " num"
This is the number of inputs to be generate for the simulation.  It is difficult
to get a reasonably accurate estimate with num less than 10,000.
.TP
.BI \-d " distribution"
This is a number specifying the input probability distribution
A value of 0 corresponds to Uniform distribution.
A value of 1 corresponds to Gaussian distribution.
A value of 2 corresponds to Laplacian distribution.
A value of 3 corresponds to Gamma distribution.  This
last option should be used with care, as the function
generating the Gamma distribution is not entirely reliable.
.TP
.BI \-e
If this option is specified the program calculates the output entropy
of the quantizer.
.TP
.BI \-h
This option will provide the usage.

.SH AUTHOR
Khalid Sayood, University of Nebraska - Lincoln.


