.TH vqimg_enc 1 
.UC 4
.SH NAME
vqimg_enc \- compresses an image using vector quantization.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B vqimg_enc
[
.BI \-i " imagein"
][
.BI \-o " cmpfile"
][
.BI \-c " codebook"
][
.BI \-x " row_size"
][
.BI \-y " col_size"
][
.B \-h
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program can be used to compress an image using vector quantization.
The codebook is obtained using the trvqsp_img program. The dimensions
of the vector and the size of the codebook are specified in the file
containing the codebook.  The indices of the vectors are coded using
a fixed length code.  Thus more compression can be obtained if the output
of this program is encoded using a variable length coder.  If an output file
is not specified the output is written to standard out.  This feature can be
used to pipe the output of this program directly to a variable length coder.
The images are assumed to be 8 bit grey-level images stored using raster scan
order.

The dimensions of the image can be specified by the user or obtained
directly by the program.  The program "knows" about only a small set
of standard image sizes.  The user can add to the set by editing the 
file image_size.c.  Or, the user can simply specify the dimensions of the 
image at run-time using the options -x and -y.

The codefile contains the codebook in binary format.  The codebook is
preceded by a 12 byte header which contains the dimensions of the vector
as well as the size of the codebook.

The program needs the following subroutines:
.IP vqencode
.IP readimage
.IP image_size
.IP stuffit
.LP
and the header file idc.h

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-i " imagein"
This is the image to be compressed.  It is assumed that this image is 
a grey scale (8 bits/pixel) image stored in raster scan order.
.TP
.BI \-o " cmpfile"
This is the compressed file.  The file also contains the name of the 
codebook used during vector quantization.
.TP
.BI \-c " codebook"
This is the codebook used for compression.  The codebook can be generated
using trvqsp_img.
.TP
.BI \-x " row_size"
This is the number of pixels in each row.
.TP
.BI \-y " col_size"
This is the number of rows in the image.
.TP
.BI \-h
This option will provide the usage.

.SH AUTHOR
Khalid Sayood, University of Nebraska - Lincoln.


